0|Home-kitchen. standing and turning forward too quickly
1|standing and turning
2|standing up. turned too fast. landed face down. Turn my body to the right and lifted myself up using the strength of my legs!
3|I had a small bottle in my right hand. I was using my left hand to guide the walker.  Did not have control of the walker and should not have anything other than my hands on the walker at all times. knees! no serious injuries! just something on elbow. turn around and push myself up while holding on to the walker
4|Turned around and reached for the walker. Turned too fast and I took melatonin the night before and it left me a little light headed. Landed on Left side of body.  Got up with Help from some of the members who attended the class
5|Cutting the grass....push and direct  the self proposed mower. Cutting the grass. Not sure. With Most of my dignity in place!!!
6|Successfully got out of shower and started to towel off and did a header?.. Standing up and drying off. Not sure, but Friend PD dropped me like a stone. Hard and on my ass.
7|cutting the lawn and JUST FROZE and then fell. cutting grass. PD and too many things on my mind
8|Produce Dept Publix in Woodstock. My son and i were just getting some stuff for dinner,i took one step back and kept on "golng". Not sure, as i just felt great at the time. Rolled with the fall and landed on my butt
9|Kitchen prepping dinner. standing up and cutting veggies. Not sure.
10|outside putting garbage can out to the curb for pickup. standing up and rolling can towards street. not sure
11|in bathroom, just showered. drying off with a towel. my stupidity
12|backyard. pulling a few pesky weeds. over compensation and lost my center of gravity. brusied right arm and sholdar
13|Walking my dog. Tripped over a small dirt mound when leaving level road to avoid a car. Rolled onto shoulder. Got up easy without assistance
14|Fell twice. First fall occurred in bedroom when getting out of bed due to sudden drop in blood pressure. He landed on his back, and housemate picked him up. Other fall occurred in kitchen while trying to sit on walker. Walker rolled away and he landed on his buttocks area. House mate picked him up.
15|Fell within dirt path from subdivision and parking lot. Stepped up from dirt to asphalt. Tripped with weight on left knee when left knee buckled and was not able to raise right foot. Landed fall on right side of my face. Pulled self up by holding onto curb stone and rolling to a seated  position and then standing up.
16|Fell while getting out of bed. Was trying to stand from lying position. Bed was at a high position, and leg were rigid. Landed on buttocks region. Roommate assisted with getting up from fall position.
17|Was getting on the elevator, and landed on back. low blood pressure was thought to have caused the fall. Someone helped to get her up.
18|Was taking laundry into the bedroom and lost balance due to trying to carry too much laundry. She currently has a pinched nerve in the back that is causing pain, walks in a bent position due to pain. Landed on right shoulder. Used bed to pull self up.
19|was trying to sit in screen room, landed on bottom. Fell due to balance issues. Son came and helped to get up.
20|Was walking into bathroom and slipped. Landed on left knee and elbow. Pulled self up.
21|was going downstairs. Grabbed object for support and ended up falling over the object. Landed in a wedged position in the doorway. Son helped to get up.
22|was going into the bathroom and lost balance due to having back issues. Landed on right arm. Pushed self up to get up.
23|was going to the bathroom, and landed on bottom due to weak legs caused by back problems. Pulled self up.
24|was trying to stand up and lost balance. Landed on side. Son helped to get up.
25|was walking, and loss balance. Landed on bottom. Pulled self up.
26|was trying to put makeup on and due to issues with back, lost balance and fell. Landed on bottom. Pushed self up with hands.
27|was walking across room and lost balance. Landed on bottom. Husband helped to get up.
28|was trying to walk without walker, and lost balance. Landed on back. Rolled over and climbed up on pianos stool to get up.
29|Zoom meeting with family. Got up quickly from chair and would have fallen if not for the wall.
30|Taking out trash. Stumbled backwards and would have fallen if not for the car.
31|Was entering bathroom and had one of his "quick freezing" moments while standing on a mat (did not slip from wet surface). Tried to reach for vanity to stabilize, forward momentum carried him and he managed to sit down safely. Wife helped him back up.
32|Walking with wife in a park in Brooklyn NY. Biker veered off the bike lane and was going to crash into them. Wife stopped the bike, Redacted's PD kicked in when he was trying to move suddenly to the left, fell onto knees and butt. No damage.
33|Walking down dimly lit stairs with several obstacles. Missed a step towards the landing as a result of avoiding an obstacle and fell. Did not get hurt, does not seem to be caused by PD symptom.
34|Distracted by talking and sat down on the bed at an odd angle and slid off the floor. No injuries occurred. Fall appeared more related to distracted than loss of balance.
35|REDACTED and her husband were walking towards the property and she tripped over a cypress tree. Her husband caught her before she hit the ground.
36|Parking lot of a hotel. Walking for my car to a hotel I was staying at. Not paying attention and very dark. I caught myself with my hands to break the fall. Just got up normally.
37|my garage. bending over and reaching. tripped and stumbled. on my right side. crawled back up.
38|I was on a 2 step stool getting Christmas decorations from a shelf in the closet. I had retrieved a box an was stepping down. After stepping off onto the floor, me and the box stumbled backwards. Perhaps the weight of the box and the instability caused by stepping off the stool as there is a point when I was only one foot was on the ground. I fell backwards onto the bed in the room. Easily. I got up easily. The surface was soft.
39|I was crouching down in order to get something from a bottom dresser drawer. When I stood up, I stumbled backwards into the closet wall. Instability of feet. While crouching down, I was on my toes. When I stood up, I was on my heels so my whole foot was not planted firmly. Since the wall was there, it stopped the fall, so it was easy to get composed.
40|Kneeling on the ground in front of my house working on cleaning up the pansies planted. I was kneeling for about 10 minutes and when I went to get up my legs were weak and I stumbled backwards and fell. I landed on On my rear end. Rolled over onto to my knees and SLOWLY got up.
41|In my bedroom. Tried to step back I just kept going.  Not being able to stop tiny steps backwards. Hit my head on cedar chest at the end of my bed then landed on back.
42|Just standing and started stepping backwards and kept going. Just lose balance and I'm not dizzy. I landed on the floor between the couch and the table. My husband and son helped me get out.
43|Backing up to open the refrigerator . Small steps backwards . I landed on top of my mom. I just got back up.
44|Walking into the kitchen opening the freezer door. I tried to step forward in my right leg kind of froze and I fell forward. I landed On my arms and elbows. My husband was home from work and help me out.
45|In the kitchen stepping back from the fridge started taking tiny steps and that's all she wrote down I went! Landed on my back and rolled backwards.
46|Picked up a box to move it and wasn't really watching my surroundings and my front leg leg froze up and I fell
47|Walking my dog 🐕 jumped up on my back He was excited   because I was going to give him a treat. On the floor broke my Humorous and shoulder very painful!. EMTs provided assistance
48|talking while walking down the stairs. not paying attention. landed on my butt. I got up.
49|started the fast steps and my walker got away from me. my welder was moving too fast for my legs to keep up. I landed flat on my stomach. I got up with my husband's help.
50|in my hall way. stepping backwards still under anesthesia and pain killers. landed on the floor. my husband helped me back up.
51|trying on clothes.  My mother was helping me put my shirt on, and she pulled a little bit too hard not bad though and I just lost my balance and fell backwards and hurt my elbow quite bad. My mother had to go get a couple of pillows from the other department for me because my knee is so bad and I get it myself. My knee is it sore from this fall though. It's sore from a different time
52|Walking away from the pantry. My right foot would not move so I fell sideways to the right. I landed on my On my right butt And arm. I pulled myself up with my walker.
53|I don't really remember what I was doing I just know that I fell and hurt bad. My legs of been freezing up really bad.  I landed On my right hip. My son was home and got me up.
54|I was standing in the doorway trying to feed my dog when I turned around my legs frozen I fell. My legs of been freezing up really bad. I landed on my side with my bad arm that I've already brought from a fall on the left side. I had to call for help and my son come to get me.
55|I believe I was letting the dogs out. My legs froze up again.   On my bad arm my left arm and I was flailing  everywhere.
56|Making coffee. Legs froze.
57|Walk to the kitchen counter from the Refrigerator. Carrying an item. Tried to break fall by putting out right hand. Cut hand on edge of counter due to force of fall. Needed 2 stitches. Pulled self up by holding onto countertop. Many falls caused because of trying to carry an item and walk. It can be a very small item or even a piece of paper. Other falls caused by reaching forward and throwing off sense of balance. Others caused when feet and legs freeze but mind says walk and upper body continues forward motion. Also, attempts to move in public when other people are around affects balance and has resulted in falls.
58|Was walking towards kitchen counter with caregiver holding arm to assist. He began to "stutter walking" and couldn't stop. Leaned forward and fell forward; was unable to stop moving forward. Fell on knees, pulled self up by using counter. Other fall occurred in kitchen, was walking toward mobility scooter in kitchen; end up leaning forward and falling. Fell on knees, used scooter and caregiver assistance to get up. Other fall occurred in kitchen, tried to get up from a chair at the table. Fell to floor, landed on knees, Pulled self up using top of table. Other fall occurred in Doctor's office while walking to exit; fell on knees, got up with caregiver's assistance.
59|Fall occurred outside when stepping over a low retaining wall. Couldn't lift foot high enough Fell forward and cut leg. Needed 7 stitches. Wife helped Mark up and to car to go for help. Other fall occurred in kitchen. Trying to get from table to scooter. No balance. On knees. Pulled self up using scooter and wife pulled up under arms. Other fall occurred in family room, was walking from sofa to scooter. Lost balance and fell on knees. Wife helped as he used coffee table to pull up. Other fall occurred on the porch when walking from porch to the kitchen. Fell down as he stepped on low door threshold; fell on knees, wife assisted to get up.
60|Fall occurred kitchen while walking towards counter, loss balance and fell on knees. Used the  counter to pull up on one side, wife on other side. Other fall occurred in upstairs hallway, was walking into bedroom, and loss balance, fell on knees, and pulled self up using door casing on one side, wife on other side. Other fall occurred in kitchen while walking towards table. Loss balance and fell on knees, pulled self up using both hands on counter. Other fall occurred in office, was trying to take a step sideways and lost balance. Fell on knees and pulled self up with chair.
61|Was climbing steps. Fell on front porch steps due to shoe getting caught on step. Landed on knees and  got back up by pulling on railing.
62|Was stepping into family room  (its one step higher than the kitchen floor), and lost balance and footing. Stepped only on the edge of the floor, and foot slipped. Fell on right side, and hit left upper arm. Husband helped to get up
63|Was walking towards car and thought the step down was closer to the driveway rather than just beyond the front door. It was dark. and the step was difficult to see. Landed one left knee and scraped middle finger on left hand. Used wall of entry way to get up.
64|While playing pickle ball, was moving to hit the ball and fell on right side when feet did not move. Friends helped to get up.
65|Was plugging in an iron, move back between ironing board and table chair, and lost balance. Grab the chair while falling backwards. The chair flipped over her. She landed her back, husband helped to get up.
66|While playing pickle ball, lost balance when attempting to hit the ball. Landed on right hip. Players helped to get up.
67|Moved to hit the ball, and fell. Feet was not moving quickly as rest of body. Landed on right side of backside. players helped get back up.
68|Walking into kitchen carrying laundry basket. Turned left and hit basket into the edge of the door. Bounced off the door and fell on right side of backside. Landed between the island and the refrigerator. Used the edge of the island to get back up.
69|started to sit in office chair, and it rolled away. Landed on backside. Used deck to lean on and pull self up.
70|was standing in front of desk. My right foot got caught on the edge of the floor mat. Fell on right side, left a bruise. Before the fall, was  looking for papers while standing. Used the small table to get up.
71|was playing pickeball, attempted to hit the ball. Body began to move to the right, feet did not flow. Landed on right side, Players helped to get up.
72|Was playing pickle ball court. Was attempting to hit the ball, and feet did not follow. Landed on right side. Players helped get up.
73|Was playing pickleball, began to move right and feet did not follow. Landed on right side, players helped to get up.
74|Was getting up from dining room. In the process of standing up, feet got tangled. Landed on right side and hit right side of head. Husband helped get up.
75|Fell outside in backyard by slipping on a leaf bed on a steep hill. Pulled self up.
76|Coming in from walking at the kitchen door, my left knee buckled under me. [had] Just unlocked door.  a weakness has been felt on that left leg my hip began to hurt. I caught myself before I landed. I got up by held onto the door frame
77|Coming up the steps, fell forward. May have misjudged the step.  Landed Forward on her right side.  Her sons helped her up.
78|standing, doing some exercises, but I didn't have a chair beside me as I am supposed to. I didn't have my weight centered properly. on my right side but was able to cushion my fall by reaching out to a dresser. my wife assisted me.
79|I was getting up out of a chair with arms, and I twisted to my left to look at something outside. I was careless and stand up first before trying to turn and look to my left. the chair tipped  over with me but I was able to slow my fall by reaching out with my left arm to the wall. no injury incurred. my wife assisted and a visitor helped me to first extricate myself from the chair then to get to my feet.
80|I was looking for a book on a high shelf. I was reaching with my right hand raised above my head. I lost my balance because my center of balance shifted backwards as I raised myself on my toes. I fell backwards, bouncing off a padded chair and ottoman. My wife came in when she heard the noise. She pulled me up to a sitting position from which I was able to  Sit on the ottoman. After recovering my equilibrium I was able to go on about my business, without the book.
81|I was playing hide-and-seek with 2 of my grandsons. In helping them hide behind some heavy curtains. I reached with my left arm across my chest to pull back the curtain from right to left.   I think I  needed to sit down. I believe I inadvertently shifted my center of balance to the left. My body responded by stumbling, taking small steps and reaching out to grab a small night table with my right hand. I fell on my back / left side. I managed to break my fall by grasping on to a chair, I was standing on a thick rug, so the impact was minimal.  Good venue.. On my own-i rolled over from my backside to a face-down position from which I was able to get up on my hands and knee.
82|I was trying to help my 6-year old grandson put some toys away.,, I was bending forward reaching for a tricycle.. I overreached and lost my balance. I stood up abruptly and teetered backward. I landed on my bottom, breaking my fall with my cane. Both of my grandson's (age 6 & 4) rushed over and helped me up, with assistance from my cane. I was embarrassed by my fall but very proud at how the grandsons rushed over to help.
83|I was standing up, trying to hang some shirts on the upper rod in our closet. I overreached with shirts on hangers, which are difficult for me to to handle. I twisted around trying to reach the chair/stool we keep in the closet. I landed on my right side, cushioned by the clothes hanging on the lower bar in the closet. I continued to roll over onto my stomach, grabbed the chair seat and pulled myself up.
84|I was standing and bent down to pick up some books. As I reached out with my right hand, l lost my balance. In the process of falling forward,  I stood up abruptly and fell backward and landed on my butt.  I was close enough to the bookshelf to pull myself up, with some minimal assistance from my 6-year old grandson. [Note: This is at least twice my grandsons have witnessed me falling. I am going to have to explain these incidents to him sooner or later.]
85|Walking, without my cane. I had a "shuffling" episode. I can't recall the technical term, for it,  but I have incidents where I start to shuffle my feet uncontrollably. This happens usually at the end of my medication cycle, i.e., 4 hours since my last dose, and happens when I urgently need a bathroom. I pitched forward and landed on my stomach. I broke my fall by reaching out and grabbing the doorframe. I waited a few seconds (10-20), calmed myself and got up by myself, using the wall as support.
86|I was changing my clothes. I was in a hurry and tried to get dressed by myself standing up. I bounced off the stool in our closed and landed on my right side, mostly on my shoulder. I used the stool to help me get up.
87|same as fall #1
88|I was waling without my cane. I think I stumbled on the rug. On my stomach, but i managed to get my hands out in front of me to cushion the fall. I just scraped my right elbow. I got up by myself, leaning on a table in the hallway. This series of falls is consistent with a pattern of a few days with balance problems followed by periods of no falls.  During the periods of increased problems I simply need to not expose myself to possible falls by sitting down whenever possible, always have my cane with me and being extra careful.  these periods seem to last 2 or 3 days followed by extended periods of no falls.
89|Standing up to leave theater. Loss of Balance and weakness in leg. Back caught by others. Lifted by helpers.
90|Climbing across back seat of auto.Had to brace on adjacent  car to exit. Feet caught and I fell. Shaky leggs. hands and knee. stood up.
91|unknown details, no medical attention required
92|Discontinued surveillance to reduce participant burden
93|Playing catch in backyard. Lost balance while catching ball; fell on backside and rolled over and pushed up to get up.
94|Was putting on pants while unsupported, and right foot got caught at the end of the pants leg, Hopped and fell on side; rolled over on back and finished putting foot through the pants leg and stood back up.
95|Rolling over in my sleep. I ran out of mattress. [I landed] on my knees. Just stood up using the bed for support - no injury, just surprise!
96|Digging a hole to plant an azalea. i was sideways to the hill with my left foot below my right.  I had placed a low (10") four-wheeled cart to my left (downhill) side, to put the dirt from the hole in.  As I raised my right foot to step down on the shovel, my left foot began to slide on the pine straw.  To counter act this, I rotated clockwise only to have my right foot impact the cart, causing me to fall downhill over the cart. [I landed] On my butt. Rotated to my knees and stood up.  Despite the date, unfortunately no tequila was involved.
97|Attempting to remove a tree limb about 10 feet over my head with a pole saw. Pine straw covering the hill became unstable due to my weight shifts associated with the sawing motion  ...ooorrrr the tree induced a micro earthquake in a vain attempt to resist my pruning efforts! [I landed] Gracefully, uphill on my gluteous maximus. With much inappropriate language, rolled to my knees and stood
98|Our house alarm sounded at 12:30, waking me up.  The alarm panel showed the code indicating we had water on the floor in the basement.  Reaching the utility room in my bare feet, I discovered the softener in a recharge cycle into an apparently clogged floor drain. I (mistakenly) pulled the softener plug, thinking I had solved the problem, and went to find some towels to mop up.  I returned only to find water still pouring over the floor.  I stepped into a previously dry spot only to find an inch of water. My feet slipped out from under me. I landed flat on my back, cracking my head on the cement floor. Wet floor.  Sleepy me.  [I landed] Flat on my back, hitting the back of my head. I do not think I was knocked out, but was definitely dazed. I eventually rolled over and stood up.  My wife took e to the ER.  They diagnosed a mild concussion and closed the headwound with no stitches, just tape.
99|ski. Too much speed. On my side. With help from the intructor.
100|ski. same as fall #1
101|ski. same as #1
102|Walking down. Stairs were not carpeted and I was in my stocking feet.  [I landed] Backwards on my butt. Slid down 4 steps to the landing and stood up
103|was leaving a party, was walking to the car, walked over some grass and lost balance when stepping into street. Landed on her backside,  and daughter helped her to get up.
104|Was standing up, a bug flew towards him, and lost balance. Landed on right side, most weight was on her knee. Was able to stand up.
105|Was riding bike in the park, and lost balance while trying to get on bike. Landed on right side and hit head on the ground. Was able to get on hands and knees and sister helped to stand up.
106|Was walking through the living room and tripped over a pillow that had fallen off a chair. Landed on right side. used chair to help stand up.
107|Ran into a coffee table while trying to leave the patio. The patio was not well lit. Landed on knees and left arm and hand. Leaned on table to get on one knee and son helped to stand up.
108|Fell while trying to stand up off bed. Lost balance and fell. Landed on left hip, used bed to stand up.
109|Was walking towards suitcase, foot got caught in comforter that was on the bed, the comforted touched the floor. Landed on left knee and right hand. Used bed to help stand up.
110|Got up from couch, couch was really low, tried to turn and maneuver between couch and coffee table,. Lost balance. Landed on left side on hand and knee. Used coffee table to help get up.
111|Was loading things from grocery cart into car. Tripped over the trailer hitch on the SUV ; was carrying something large and forgot about trailer hitch. Landed on left side on arm, hip, and knee. Sister and brother-in-law helped to stand up.
112|Stood up after using toilet, toilet was very low. Lost balance, and fell. Rib cage hit side of the toilet. Was able to move self out from between the toilet and the bathtub. Used side of tub to lift self up.
113|Was walking from the kitchen into the living room, and lost balance while carrying several things and walking too fast. Landed on left side  and pulled self up with chair.
114|Walking - Hiking. Tripped on an exposed root. [landed] in front of me on the dirt/trial. Got back up after falling down on all 4s.
115|Getting up from sitting in a chair. Feet were crossed under chair. Muscle cramps/spasms in legs as pulling legs out from under chair to stand, shoes or chair legs interfered/slowed feet and slid off plastic.seat and landed on knees on floor. [I landed] Knees and hands like crawling. [I got up by] Braced against table and chair to lift myself up.
